=head1 NAME

DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList - Stopwords for DBIx::FullTextSearch

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList;
  # connect to database (regular DBI)
  my $dbh = DBI->connect('dbi:mysql:database', 'user', 'passwd');

  # create a new empty stop word list
  my $sl1 = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->create_empty($dbh, 'sl_web_1');

  # or create a new one with default stop words
  my $sl2 = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->create_default($dbh, 'sl_web_2', 'english');

  # or open an existing one
  my $sl3 = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->open($dbh, 'sl_web_3');

  # add stop words
  $sl1->add_stop_word(['a','in','on','the']);

  # remove stop words
  $sl2->remove_stop_word(['be','because','been','but','by']);

  # check if word is in stoplist
  $bool = $sl1->is_stop_word('in');

  # empty stop words
  $sl3->empty;

  # drop stop word table
  $sl2->drop;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList provides stop lists that can be used -L<DBIx::FullTextSearch>.
StopList objects can be reused accross several FullTextSearch objects.

=head1 METHODS

=over 4

=head2 CONSTRUCTERS

=item create_empty

  my $sl = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->create_empty($dbh, $sl_name);

This class method creates a new StopList object.

=item create_default

  my $sl = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->create_default($dbh, $sl_name, $language);

This class method creates a new StopList object, with default words loaded in for the
given language.  Supported languages include Danish, Dutch, English, Finnish, French,
German, Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, and Swedish.

=item open

  my $sl = DBIx::FullTextSearch::StopList->open($dbh, $sl_name);

Opens and returns StopList object

=head2 OBJECT METHODS

=item add_stop_word

  $sl->add_stop_word(\@stop_words);

Adds stop words to StopList object.  Expects array reference as argument.

=item remove_stop_word

  $sl->remove_stop_word(\@stop_words);

Remove stop words from StopList object.  

=item is_stop_word

  $bool = $sl->is_stop_word($stop_word);

Returns true iff stop_word is StopList object

=item empty

  $sl->empty;

Removes all stop words in StopList object.

=item drop

  $sl->drop;

Removes table associated with the StopList object.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

T.J. Mather, tjmather@tjmather.com,
http://www.tjmather.com/

=head1 COPYRIGHT

All rights reserved. This package is free software; you can
redistribute it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<DBIx::FullTextSearch>
